hi I'm dr. John Barrington we're here at
Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital of
Plano I am a fellowship-trained joint
replacement surgeon we're gonna be
taking you inside for a sneak peek into
our arthroplasty Suites these are
operating rooms here at Texas Health
Presbyterian Hospital of Plano they're
specially designed with instruments and
implants and equipment specifically for
the high quality joint replacement
procedures that we perform here at Texas
Health Plano why don't you come inside
and we'll take a look here we are in the
operating room this is the operating
room table where you as the patient will
be lying during the surgery at the head
of the table is our anesthesiologist you
can see the anesthesia station there
with gases they may do an epidural or
spinal anesthetic
the anesthesiologist is in control is in
control of your cardiovascular and
respiratory functions during the
procedure itself around the operating
room we have a table setup for
instruments and implants and this is
where all of the working tools that we
use to put in the implants will be
placed while we work here at the
operating room table it takes more than
just a surgeon to do an operation
besides the anesthesiologist and the
surgeon we have a team of three to four
people that are assisting us in the
operating room at all times several
features that I want to point out about
this particular arthroplasty suite in
addition to regular lights we actually
have special lights that have in light
cameras in addition to those in light
cameras we have the ability to use a
room camera to video or or take pictures
from the room we have instant feedback
in this operating room with multiple
monitors digital video monitors placed
around the room and in positions where I
can see in order to assist me at the
time of surgery another feature of a
room that's specifically designed for
joint replacement is one of absolute
sterility we never want to have any
infections at this hospital or infection
rate is one of the lowest in the country
one of the ways we do that is by
circulating only clean air the way that
I do that is I actually wear this this
head suit which is called a body exhaust
or a clean air suit I wear a special
helmet that has a circulating air
movement powered by a battery that clips
onto my waist and over this helmet
I wear a gown that goes all the way from
my head all the way to the floor
that keeps the error that comes off of
my body within my suit and it keeps
anything from the tear that the table
from getting on to me in this way we
allow any shed debris from any of the
people that are working in the operating
room we keep that from getting from from
us as surgeons on to the patient or our
operating room personnel on to the
patient the other thing you can see
about my specific helmet is I have
what's called a headlamp and this
headlamp allows me to be able to look
into very small spaces this headlamp
allows us to be able to do things like
minimally invasive knee surgery and
minimally invasive hip surgery where we
can make the incision smaller and use a
headlamp so that we can see inside to do
the work well inside the body here we
are at our instrument cabinet what I'd
like to show you here a lot of times
patients ask me how do you know what
size to use for me and the answer is we
don't know precisely until we're in the
surgery and we measure we actually have
calipers that measure within one
millimeter the beauty of what we have
here at Texas Health Presbyterian
Hospital of Plano we have implants that
are within one millimeter of the exact
size of your particular knee we go
beyond just choosing a knee that's for
your gender or for your race but we have
it specifically sized and shaped exactly
for you you can see from this cabinet
one of the things we have here are the
these are the components this would be a
femoral component for a total knee
replacement this would be a tibial
component for a total knee replacement
these here are the polyethylene or the
cartilage replacement pieces for a knee
replacement and here you can see this
one is actually size 10 millimeters by
63 millimeters and if I don't like this
one if it doesn't perfectly fit you
this one is 11 millimeters I don't like
11 I can go up to 12 or 13 we have every
one millimeter sized implant perfectly
sized and shaped for your knee well I
hope you enjoyed your tour of our
operating rooms here at Texas Health
Presbyterian Hospital at Plano and now I
think you know a little bit more about
what goes in to the operating room and
if you have any other questions about
the operating room or any questions
about your implants or instruments or
the type of surgery plan to do feel free
to ask me when we're in the office hope
you have a nice day
you